Lisa Joyner is the Senior Digital Writer at House Beautiful UK and Country Living UK, where she's busy writing about home and interiors, gardening, dog breeds, pets, health and wellbeing, countryside news, small space inspiration, and the hottest properties on the market. Previously, she has written for Conde Nast Traveller, House & Garden and Marie Claire magazine. Lisa studied at University For The Creative Arts, where she completed a BA in Fashion Journalism.
 
When we heard that an antique dealer had rescued this angel from a crumbling abbey, we knew we had an obligation to keep its classic beauty alive. An example of Victorian sculpture, this nearly 1.5-foot-tall antique replica wall angel holds a shell font cast in quality designer resin. A Toscano exclusive for home or garden.
 
**Download ✔ [https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SPz](https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SPz)**


 
This 6-piece wall decor set offers a creative, glam vibe for your space with a mix of everyday silhouette and extra shine. Each piece is crafted from iron in coordinating but distinct shapes that begin as rectangles. The designs show the look of paper pages blowing in the wind, each with different corners folded or curled or waving. We love that they're painted in a bright metallic gold hue that catches the light and bounces it around the room. The pages all measure around 18'' tall and 10'' wide with variations based on construction. Arrange them together or separately throughout a space.
 
From her intricately sculpted wings to her angelic expression, this mystical work is cast in quality designer resin to capture every detail and is hand-finished to highlight the beauty of the fine sculpt. This Toscano-exclusive work is a graceful addition to your favorite home or garden wall!
 
Perfect for farmhouse interior design, this traditional broach wall sculpture by Laurel Foundry Modern Farmhouse harnesses rustic elements. Light wood veneer pairs with a black and white finish on the iron. A floral design sits in the center, accented by a 3D metal flower that makes this wall sculpture pop.
 
When we heard that an antique dealer had rescued this angel from a crumbling abbey, we knew we had an obligation to keep its classic beauty alive. An example of Victorian sculpture, this nearly 1.5-foot-tall antique replica wall angel holds a shell font cast in quality designer resin.
 
Occasionally, we make a find like this stunning angel sculpture-a monumental work of 18th-century architectural art-that we have the privilege of preserving for generations to come. Gazing in contemplation, our heavenly angel statue wraps her impressive angel wings across her beautiful head of curls and the soft folds of her long gown. The artistic detail of this Design exclusive, angel wall statue is amazing. Our classic composition is cast in quality designer resin with an aged stone finish to be admired in-home or garden. This extraordinary angel statue is an investment in classic sculpture and worthy of a place of honor.

Decorative accents are perfect for filling in the gaps on shelves, tables, and walls, while also anchoring the space and drawing the eye to a whimsical pattern, playful pop of color, or an imaginative abstraction of art. Take this set of hanging wall art: It includes three flowers, constructed of glazed ceramic, perfect for bringing a nature-inspired focal point to your hallway, gallery wall, and more. This set includes wall mounting hardware is included for these five separate pieces.
 
This carved wood wall art set will work great in your traditional style-inspired living room as a stand-alone display or with a matching Decor. Due to the handmade nature of this item, no two will be alike, there will be slight differences in shape, size, and color. Can be hung vertically using the keyholes; nails and screws are not included. Suitable for indoor use only. This item ships fully assembled in one piece. Made in India. This brown-colored wall sculpture comes as a set of 2. Traditional style.
 
A reminder that your guardian angel is never too far away, this set of gorgeous angel wings will look beautiful in your home! Crafted out of high quality polyresin, this pair of metallic gold angel wings will create a stunning display as decorative wall decor in any living room, dining room, bedroom, hallway, office and more. The stunning wall accents will create a stylish display that can bring a whimsical, elegant, and spiritual vibe to any space!
 
Inspired by the biblical promise in Luke 4:10 that says, "He will order his angels to protect and guard you," Danish artist Bertel Thorvaldsen sculpted these amazing, angelic images that came to be his best-known works. The angel known as Morning sweetly accompanies a figure known as the Genius of Light, while the angel of Night gently ushers in the allegories of Sleep and Death. Sculpted in bas relief to epitomize the mighty warriors with wings, these replica roundels are cast directly from the museum originals in quality designer resin with a two-tone antique stone and a powder blue finish exclusively for Design Toscano.
 
Full of raw energy and confident sensuality, this dark beauty is decidedly not the stereotypically angelic type. From flowing tresses and bare breasts to curvaceous hips and tattooed skin, we predict that this daring sculpt will bypass the churchyard, and find a proudly symbolic place in your home. Cast in quality designer resin with a gunmetal pewter finish, our Design makes a statement all her own on your gallery or garden wall.
 
Click 'Accept all cookies' to agree to all cookies that collect anonymous data. To only allow the cookies that make the site work, click 'Use essential cookies only.' Visit 'Set cookie preferences' to control specific cookies.
 
Commercial Group is an interesting case study for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is an example of a company that has achieved a fairly radical environmental transformation in a short period of time. Commercial only began considering low carbon initiatives in 2006 but over the past five years has moved to a position where green issues are now at the core of their business. Normalised carbon emissions have fallen by around 75 per cent since 2006 and waste to landfill has reduced from nine tonnes a year to less than one.
 
Secondly, Commercial's green strategy puts a great deal of emphasis on staff involvement. The company uses a number of mechanisms to involve staff both in implementing green projects and generating ideas for new schemes. In particular, Commercial has experimented with a number of methods for maintaining enthusiasm and momentum in the initiatives. Staff surveys indicate a high level of engagement with the firm's carbon reduction programme.
 
4.1 Commercial Group is an office supplies and procurement company, founded in 1991 and based on a site in Cheltenham. The company's founders remain on the board. It currently employs around 170 people and is in the process of expanding. Commercial's customers are primarily other businesses to whom it provides four main sets of services: Office supplies, office interiors, IT services and support, and printing.
 
4.2 Commercial's carbon reduction programme began in 2006 when the Sales Director (who is also one of the company's founders) attended a talk by Al Gore and a screening of 'An Inconvenient Truth'. The event was one at which clients and other key firms in their sector attended and was intended to have a networking purpose as well. Commercial had always prided itself on being a 'responsible' firm in how it operated, emphasising the quality of services it provides and ensuring staff were well looked after and rewarded. However, the talk alerted her to green issues as an area that a responsible company should be aware of:
 
4.3 Alongside the consideration of green issues as a moral imperative, the company was motivated to engage in low carbon activities due to potential business benefits. Given that the products the company sells (paper, printer cartridges etc.) and services they provide (particularly IT) are key sources of business waste and energy usage, it was anticipated that there would be increasing interest in reducing the environmental impact from both customers and regulators. Greening the business would potentially be a source of competitive advantage in the future.
 
4.4 Low-carbon activity has evolved over several stages. A small informal team was assembled to develop a plan and as part of this a member of staff with interest in green issues was seconded to act as an Environmental Strategist. They spoke to a number organisations involved in providing low-carbon advice and guidance. In addition to larger infrastructure and technical projects, the team was encouraged to look at smaller, more behaviour oriented projects. One team member suggested a bike to work scheme, another suggested introducing double sided printing and set up a system for filtering out junk faxes and a third member suggested replacing disposable paper cups with tumblers.
 
4.5 The plans were then launched more widely across the company and externally. Commercial ran a Corporate Social Responsibility day to advertise their success so far and their intentions to customers. The night before they held a film night showing 'An Inconvenient Truth' which was compulsory for all staff, and outlined their plans to staff. At this stage they had a number of small teams in which staff could get involved on waste management and carbon reduction, allowing staff to make suggestions to identify and deal with inefficiencies within the firm.
 
4.6 After a year and a half of small teams leading low carbon activities, the company found these had got somewhat stale and so they launched the **Green Ambassadors scheme**. This was an initiative to help employees reduce their carbon emissions (and by extension their fuel bills) at home. The scheme was voluntary and involved pr