
 
***Raid*** is a 2018 Indian Hindi-language crime film directed by Raj Kumar Gupta. It stars Ajay Devgn, Saurabh Shukla and Ileana D'Cruz.[3] The film is based on the real life income-tax raid conducted by the officers of Income Tax Department on Sardar Inder Singh in the 1980s, which distinguished itself from others for being the longest raid in Indian history.[4][5]
 
The film focuses on an IRS officer Amay Patnaik, who has just been transferred[10] to Lucknow as Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, where he lives happily with his wife Malini. One day, he receives an anonymous tip about black money hoarded by (Member of Parliament) Rameshwar Singh, the don of Sitagarh, who had evaded income tax for a long time. So, Amay and his team, after much planning, head to Sitagarh. There he and his team face opposition from Rameshwar's very hostile family, but he holds up to his ideals and integrity. He searches every nook and cranny of the house with his team to find the black money without any success. After a few hours of searching, when all hope seems lost, he receives an anonymous letter, along with a map, revealing the location of the money in the house. Amay and his team break down the walls, ceilings, staircases and old storerooms (with the help of the map) to find assets worth crores (tens of millions).[11] MP Rameshwar, not willing to accept defeat, goads Amay into letting him leave the house.
 
**DOWNLOAD ☑ [https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SXN](https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SXN)**


 
He then meets the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, who refuses any help as the Income Tax department is under the control of the Central Government and the raid is legal. The Central Finance Minister is persuaded to call Amay, but is promptly rebuffed. A relentless Rameshwar meets several MPs, politicians, senior officers and even the Prime Minister Of India, but to no avail. He then rallies his political support and threatens to topple the state cabinet unless the Prime Minister agrees to meet him. As the raid continues for a 3rd consecutive night, the PM and Rameshwar meet. The PM calls Amay and asks him to look for other legal options; Amay agrees to comply, as long as she furnishes a signed order through fax ordering Amay and his team to stop the raid, effectively negating the request. The PM realizes that a written order pressurizing the IRS Officer to stop the raid may reach the media and the Government may be brought into disrepute. She refuses to help and sends Rameshwar away. Frustrated, Rameshwar upon exhausting his political options, tries the tack of attacking Amay's wife Malini, who narrowly escapes. On hearing this, Amay becomes furious but decides to control his anger.
 
Finally, on the 4th day, at noon, Rameshwar sends his henchmen to kill Amay and his team. A long battle ensues and a nearly defeated Amay is saved in the nick of time by a special police force sent in by the PM. Rameshwar is arrested and before being led away in handcuffs, he asks Amay about the identity of his informer. Amay refuses to divulge that information. It revealed that Rameshwar's youngest daughter-in-law was the informer; she and her lover wanted revenge on Rameshwar for forcing her to marry his impotent son as part of a political deal. Rameshwar is seen wondering about the informer's identity in prison while Amay gets transferred to another city, with hopes of a brighter future.
 
In August 2017, Raj Kumar Gupta made an official announcement about Ajay Devgn and Ileana D'Cruz being a part of his next film titled *Raid*.[12][13] More than 40 theatre actors of Lucknow were selected to play various characters in the film.[14]
 
The music of the film is composed by Tanishk Bagchi and Amit Trivedi while lyrics are penned by Manoj Muntashir and Indraneel. The first song of the film "Sanu Ek Pal Chain" which is sung by Rahat Fateh Ali Khan was released on 12 February 2018 It is the remake of *Judaai (1997)* Title Track. The second track of the film titled as "Nit Khair Manga" which is also sung by Rahat Fateh Ali Khan released on 20 February 2018. Both the songs were originally composed by Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan and recreated by Tanishk Bagchi. The album was released on 1 March 2018 by T-Series.
 
The film received generally positive reviews from critics.[27] On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 67% based on 12 reviews with an average rating of 5.8/10.[28]
 
Rachit Gupta of *Times of India* found the screenplay of the film and Saurabh Shukla's acting performance to be impressive but criticized the songs which he felt were unnecessary and only acted as a distraction. Rachit gave the film a rating of 3.5 out of 5.[29] Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV gave it 3.5 stars out of 5 saying "Devgn's brooding presence" made the film riveting.[30] However, in a 1.5 out of 5 star review, *The Indian Express* called the movie "overlong and tepid".[31] In 4 out of 5 star review for Bollywood Hungama, Taran Adarsh wrote that the film is a nail-biting thriller which "is smart, engaging, gripping and entertaining".[32] Sweta Kausal of Hindustan Times praised the acting performances of Ajay Devgan and Saurabh Shukla but criticized the excessive length and the repetitive nature of the screenplay and gave the film a rating of 2.5 out of 5.[33] Rajeev Masand of News18 found the movie to be impressive in parts but was critical of its editing and the second half's screenplay which he felt was weak. Among the actors, he felt that Saurabh Shukla's performance was exceptional, and gave the film a rating of 2.5 out of 5.[34] Actor Ajay Devgn has won Best Foreign Actor award at the 27th China Golden Rooster and Hundred Flowers Film Festival for his role in film Raid.[35]

In April 2020, *Raid 2* was announced.[38] Principal photography began in January 2024.[39][40] It is scheduled to release on 15 November 2024 starring Ajay Devgn, Riteish Deshmukh, Saurabh Shukla and Vaani Kapoor.[41]
 
Here is a war movie that understands how wars are actually fought. After "Stealth" and its high-tech look-alikes, which make warfare look like a video game, "The Great Raid" shows the hard work and courage of troops whose reality is danger and death. The difference between "Stealth" and "The Great Raid" is the difference between the fantasies of the Pentagon architects of "shock and awe" and the reality of the Marines who were killed in Iraq last week.
 
The movie is based on the true story of a famous raid by U.S. Army Rangers and Philippine guerillas, who attacked the Japanese POW camp at Cabanatuan and rescued more than 500 Americans, with the loss of only two American and 21 Filipino lives. Nearly 800 Japanese died in the surprise attack. These numbers are so dramatic that the movie uses end credits to inform us they are factual.
 
"The Great Raid" has the look and feel of a good war movie you might see on cable late one night, perhaps starring Robert Mitchum, Robert Ryan or Lee Marvin. It has been made with the confidence that the story itself is the point, not the flashy graphics. The raid is outlined for the troops (and for the audience), so that, knowing what the rescuers want to do, we understand how they're trying to do it. Like soldiers on a march, it puts one step in front of another, instead of flying apart into a blizzard of quick cuts and special effects. Like the jazzier but equally realistic "Black Hawk Down," it shows a situation that has moved beyond policy and strategy and amounts to soldiers in the field, hoping to hell they get home alive.
 
"You are the best-trained troops in the U. S. Army," their commander (Benjamin Bratt) tells the 6th Army Ranger Battalion. Perhaps that is close to the truth, but they have never been tested under fire; their first assignment involves penetrating Japanese-controlled territory, creeping in daylight across an open field toward the POW camp, hiding in a ditch until night, and then depending on surprise to rescue the prisoners, most of them starving, many of them sick, all of them survivors of the Bataan Death March.
 
Historical narration and footage provide the con As the Japanese retreated, they killed their prisoners, and Americans in one camp were burned alive. In both this raid and a larger, more famous one at the nearby Los Banos camp, the challenge was to rescue the POWs before the Japanese felt the enemy was close enough to trigger the deaths of their prisoners.
 
Commanding the Rangers are the real-life war heroes Lt. Col. Henry Mucci (Bratt) and Capt. Bob Prince (James Franco), who plans the raid. In parallel stories, we meet the fictional Maj. Gibson (Joseph Fiennes), leader of the POWs, and a brave American nurse, also from real life, named Margaret Utinsky (Connie Nielsen). She works in the Manila underground, obtaining drugs on the black market, which are smuggled in to the camp. She and Gibson were once lovers (in what must be a fictional invention), but have not seen each other for years. Still, it is the idea of Margaret that sustains Gibson, whose strength is being drained by malaria.
 
The film is unique in giving full credit to the Filipino fighters who joined the Rangers and made the local logistics possible by enlisting the secret help of local farmers and villagers (their ox carts were employed to carry prisoners too weak to walk). The Filipinos are led by Capt. Juan Pajota (Cesar Montano), a forcible local actor who steps into the Hollywood cast and adds to its authenticity and sense of mission.
 
A brilliant strategic idea is to have a single American plane make several passes over the camp, lifting the eyes of the Japanese to the skies as rescuers were creeping toward them. The raid itself, when it comes, is at night, and would be hard for us to follow except that it follows so precisely the plans that were earlier outlined. One effective moment comes when an officer delays action to be absolutely sure that 