During aging process, primary or secondary amines (e.g., DPA) form *N*-nitroso derivatives which have toxic properties. Stabilizing properties of TPA are comparable to the properties of DPA, which has been confirmed by the study of stabilizer consumption under the influence of nitrogen oxides. A similar degree of depletion was obtained for investigated stabilizers [8]. During aging of TPA-containing powders, stabilizer is consumed faster than in the case of powders containing centralite I, akardite II or 2-nitrodiphenylamine [9]. TPA is a more effective stabilizer for single-base than for two-base powders [4]. New, non-toxic, environmentally friendly compounds (such as tocopherol or ionone derivatives) have also been offered as stabilizers [10,11,12]. Derivatives of these substances have been determined as being non-toxic and having stabilizing properties of nitrocellulose propellants [13].
 
One of the major applications of nitrocellulose includes the production of propellants. Relevant physicochemical properties of nitrocellulose (such as solubility in different solvents, viscosity) resulted in manufacturing process involving various shapes of propellant grains, e.g., flakes, cylinders or spherical shapes. Spherical grains of nitrocellulose are obtained by water [14, 15] or lacquer method [16, 17]. The granulation process is obtained by a damage of fiber nitrocellulose structure caused by processing of solvent. In water method, NC is suspended in water and subsequently is added to solvent. In granulation process, such solvents as esters or ketones, e.g., ethyl acetate, butyl acetate, isopropyl acetate, isobutyl methyl ketone, methyl phenyl ketone are used [14, 16,17,18,19,20]. Nitrocellulose stabilizers can be added with a process solvent. The next step of granulate formation includes the addition of protective colloid in order to reinforce formed NC granules. Gelatin, dextrin, potato or corn starch, animal glue, acacia gum [20,21,22] are used as protective colloids. Water (trapped inside NC granules) is removed by the solution of inorganic salt (e.g., sodium sulfate, potassium nitrate, barium nitrate). At the end of the process, the solvent is distilled off. Spherical nitrocellulose powders can be used for technological process of gun propellants [23] or homogeneous rocket propellants [24].
 
**Download ↔ [https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SXW](https://amreamate.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SXW)**


 
The aim of the study was to extend the state of knowledge on the effect of stabilizers and nitrogen content on thermal properties of nitrocellulose. The following stabilizers were chosen: centralite I, centralite II, akardite II and triphenylamine. Furthermore, the effect of nitrogen content on the properties of obtained nitrocellulose granules was investigated. The following parameters were studied for the resultant granules: helium density, volume fraction of closed pores, heat of combustion, thermal properties and kinetic parameters of thermal decomposition.
 
The nitrocellulose granules were prepared in laboratory scale. Eight granulation processes were performed for each type of nitrocellulose and stabilizers. Symbols of each product are presented in Table 2.
 
Nitrocellulose (18.0 g calculated on dried NC) was suspended in 305 mL of distilled water in a reactor with four-blade propeller stirrer. The mixture was heated to 50 C, and then 116 mL of ethyl acetate (EtAc) with 0.27 g of stabilizer was dosed to nitrocellulose suspension with dropping funnel. After 30 min, 0.27 g of potato starch in 20 mL of distilled water was added to mixture; after another 30 min, sodium sulfate (13.2 g) in 100 mL of distilled water was added to reactor. A final step involved the distillation of EtAc by heating up gradually to max 95 C. Obtained granules were sieved in a stream of water on sieves of the following dimensions: 0.385 and 0.75 mm. Each portion of NC grains was dried to constant mass at 60 C.
 
Heat of combustion analysis was performed using adiabatic bomb calorimeter IKA C2000 Basic. Samples (2.00 g) were placed in the bomb under reduced pressure. The calorimeter was calibrated by burning a standard propellant. Two measurements were taken for individual samples, which served to calculate the mean and standard deviation.

Heat flow calorimetry (HFC) was conducted with use of TAM III calorimeter (TA Instruments). Samples were placed in capped ampoules (2.0 g). Measurements were determined at 90 C (the highest temperature recommended by standard STANAG 4582 procedure [42]), and calorimetric signal analysis started after 45 min according to manufacturer recommendation. A total duration of measurement amounted to min. 3.9 day.
 
The calculation of kinetic parameters revealed that many parallel and consequent reactions take place during thermal decomposition of nitrocellulose granules. For this reason, the kinetic description is used in quite generic terms. It has been assumed that nitrocellulose decomposition is consistent with the primary model [2, 37], and the products of decomposition have decomposition-catalyzing properties.
 
The authors of the publication [43] proposed an equation describing the dependence of heat cumulative (*Q*cumulative) over time for HFC measurements. Using the same assumptions, a heat generation rate (*k*Q) was determined according to the equation:
 
The addition of triphenylamine into nitrocellulose granules does not entail significant changes in density, volume fraction of closed pores and the heat of combustion when compared to the granules containing conventional stabilizers. Thermal properties and chemical stability of granules containing TPA were better or similar in comparison to other stabilizers under study.
 
The values of helium density, volume fraction of closed pores and the heat of combustion are presented in Table 4. In the group of granules containing centralite I, G(CI)3 was the one characterized by the lowest helium density (and the highest volume fraction of closed pores), while the other two granules G(CI)1 and G(CI)2 were characterized by a similar helium density and the volume fraction of closed pores. In the case of granules with TPA, the highest helium density (and the lowest volume fraction of closed pores) is characteristic to G(TPA)2 granulate. When comparing the granules with the same content of nitrogen in nitrocellulose, it can be observed that granules with TPA were characterized by lower values of helium density than the ones with CI (with the exception of NC 13.3% N). Lower values of helium density indicate that TPA has lower gelling properties than CI in the nitrocellulose matrix; thus, it is more difficult to form granules with lower porosity. If the stabilizer is characterized by suitable gelling properties in the nitrocellulose matrix, then fibrous and porous structure of NC can be destroyed more easily.
 
The change in nitrogen content in nitrocellulose does not entail modification in the nature of changes in the apparent energy of activation versus degree of conversion. It was observed that, in a significant scope of degrees of conversion, the NC-containing granules of the lowest nitrogen content are characterized by the lowest apparent energy of activation energy. The other two granules, G(TPA)2 and G(TPA)3 with higher nitrogen content, are characterized by similar values of apparent activation energy within the error margin. Chai et al. [49] observed that in the initial stage of the reaction, the activation energy increases with the decrease in nitrocellulose nitrogen content, while for the higher degrees of conversion, an inverse relationship was observed. The introduction of stabilizer to nitrocellulose entails a change in the relationship of apparent activation energy versus the nitrogen content at the initial stage of reaction.
 
The change in nitrogen content in nitrocellulose does not entail modification in relationship of apparent activation energy versus degree of conversion. It was observed that in a significant scope of degrees of conversion, G(TPA)1 granule is characterized by the lowest apparent energy of activation. The introduction of stabilizer to nitrocellulose entails a different effects of nitrogen content on the apparent energy of activation, i.e., apparent activation energy increases with increased nitrogen content.
 
**Open Access** This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit
 a2f82b0cb4
 
